# Data Mining

Data mining, also known as knowledge discovery in data (KDD), is the process of uncovering patterns and other valuable information from large data sets. Given the evolution of data warehousing technology and the growth of big data, adoption of data mining techniques has rapidly accelerated over the last couple of decades, assisting companies by transforming their raw data into useful knowledge. However, despite the fact that that technology continuously evolves to handle data at a large-scale, leaders still face challenges with scalability and automation.
Data mining has improved organizational decision-making through insightful data analyses. The data mining techniques that underpin these analyses can be divided into two main purposes; they can either describe the target dataset or they can predict outcomes through the use of machine learning algorithms. These methods are used to organize and filter data, surfacing the most interesting information, from fraud detection to user behaviors, bottlenecks, and even security breaches.
When combined with data analytics and visualization tools, like Apache Spark, delving into the world of data mining has never been easier and extracting relevant insights has never been faster. Advances within artificial intelligence only continue to expedite adoption across industries. 
Data mining is the process of extracting useful information from large sets of data. It involves using various techniques from statistics, machine learning, and database systems to identify patterns, relationships, and trends in the data. This information can then be used to make data-driven decisions, solve business problems, and uncover hidden insights. Applications of data mining include customer profiling and segmentation, market basket analysis, anomaly detection, and predictive modeling. Data mining tools and technologies are widely used in various industries, including finance, healthcare, retail, and telecommunications.

In general terms, “Mining” is the process of extraction of some valuable material from the earth e.g. coal mining, diamond mining, etc. In the context of computer science, “Data Mining” can be referred to as knowledge mining from data, knowledge extraction, data/pattern analysis, data archaeology, and data dredging.  It is basically the process carried out for the extraction of useful information from a bulk of data or data warehouses.  One can see that the term itself is a little confusing. In the case of coal or diamond mining, the result of the extraction process is coal or diamond. But in the case of Data Mining, the result of the extraction process is not data!! Instead, data mining results are the patterns and knowledge that we gain at the end of the extraction process. In that sense, we can think of Data Mining as a step in the process of Knowledge Discovery or Knowledge Extraction.
